---
layout: post
title: Day 9 Arches and Potash Rd
---

Another packed and perfect day. Since it's so hot here in Moab, this morning Liran and I woke up at 5:30AM and silently got ready so we could be at the trailhead by 6:30AM. I had really mixed feelings about starting so early since I felt guilty about waking Raz up. Leaving later wasn't an option - by 8am it's blaziing hot.

While I was loading the car, Liran woke up Raz (I left him to do the dirty work). We decided we would change and feed her at the trailhead - ideally she would stay asleep all the way there. As soon as Liran stepped out of the caravan with her, a crow cawed overhead and Raz woke up. She opened her eyes and her first reaction was "wow!". So we started the day with a big smile and laughter.

We got to the Delicate Arch trailhead a bit before 6:30AM, and there were already cars there and people returning from the hike. We started hiking, Liran carrying Raz and I carrying all of our water and gear. Delicate Arch is the most famous arch in the park, and I think it's also the one that is featured on the UT license plate. There are signs when you begin the trail about how strenuous and difficult it is, so we were prepared for something awful. 

The hike was gorgeous. It crossed a little creek, through a sandy wash, up a large slickrock dome, and then along a rocky ledge over to the arch. Liran was tired and hungry and annoyed that we were up so early without coffee so he was walking along slow and steady. I was excited to be on the trail and was enjoying the cool breeze, so I hiked up ahead. I then heard Raz behind me "״אמא! אל תברחי לי. She is constantly herding Liran and I to ensure we are where she expects us to be.

Part of the hike crosses a dry creek bed with lots of bushes and trees growing it. Raz said "״תראי אמא, פעם היו פו מים ירוקים. Liran and I were impressed that she was able to figure out that because there is greenery here that there used to be water. Raz also pointed out all kinds of things she saw along the way, yelling excitedly "lizard lizard lizard!" or "bunny bunny bunny"! She was constantly on the lookout.

After the sandy wash, the trail climbs up some slickrock. It's a long and exposed ascent, and I can definitely see how it would be very painful to do when it's hot. But since we were doing it around 7AM, there was a breeze and we could enjoy it. Liran lead the way and ran up it while I tried to take pictures and keep up. When I caught up to him and Raz, totally out of breath, Raz asks me "?אמא מה את עושה" This is her new thing - even when I'm just sitting in the car, she needs to check in with me and see what I'm up to.

After finishing the slickrock and walking along a rocky ledge, we arrived at Delicate Arch. The hike was definitely worth it. The arch frames a view of the LaSal mountains and the valley below, and it sits in the middle of this sort of saddle/bowl. We climbed across the saddle and found a place near the base of the arch with a great view. There were already people everywhere, but it wasn't super packed, and people were very courteous in taking turns to take photos. We sat, had breakfast and enjoyed the view. We even saw a crow, just for Raz.

On the way down it had already started to heat up. I couldn't imagine doing the hike even at 8AM, when it was already starting to be uncomfortable. There were lots of people that we saw starting the trek that we could tell were going to suffer and turn back. Liran worked really hard to carry Raz up the trail, and almost everyone we passed commented on it. This was probably the most difficult trail he's carried her on, and one man who was struggling to climb up even told Liran he was "inspirational" as he saw Liran finishing the trail. 

After Delicate Arch we decided to do Landscape Arch, which has the longest span of any of the arches. This is considered an easy hike, so we decided that Raz could walk it. Raz really enjoyed walking the trail, running between us, and looking at the different plants and rocks. She loves rocks. She would frequently stop, just to run sand through her fingers and pick up rocks. Eventually she started filling my pockets with handfuls of sand and rocks. It would be cute if they were carefully selected rocks that she wanted to collect, but she really was just taking handfuls of dirt and gravel and filling my pockets.

We got to the arch, which was nice (but he one at Natural Bridges was nicer), sat in the shade and ate mango. On the way back, since it was getting hot and we wanted to speed things up, Liran carried Raz. At one point she spotted a lizard on the trek. She of course yelled out and pointed it to us. Then she told us was a lizard alligator. Almost.

After finishing up at Arches, we went to the supermarket and then back home to shower and nap in the AC. Raz had her usual outdoor shower and then took a solid 3 hour nap. I was alseep for 2.5 hours. Liran meanwhile took a 20 min nap and went to run errands, since he's the responsible one.

After our naps, we decided we should take advantage of the late sunset and head out to see some of Canyonlands, the next national park. The map showed that there is a back entrance to the park on a dirt trail just outside of Moab, so we decided to try it. The trail starts off as a road to Potash and then traverses the canyons below Island in the Sky along the Colorado River.

It was a stunning drive. We weren't quite sure we were heading in the right direction (because there is another 70 mile offroad trail right around there that we didn't want to take), but we were so taken aback by the beauty that we didn't want to turn around. The road follows the Colorado River with steep cliffs on either side. Then there are some train tracks before arriving at what looks like some sort of mining operation. It then drives alongside what look like evaporation ponds for minerals. After that it climbs up and goes along the rim of a canyon with the river below. It keeps going along the canyon rim, and then climbs along the cliffs all the way up to the park. It's not well marked and it was mostly empty. Parts of it weren't exactly ideal for the Ridgeline, but it wasn't at all difficult. The trail ends at the entrance road to the park and the visitor's center.

Liran and I were actually surprised at how easy going Raz was on this pretty long 4x4 trip. We were bouncing around, but she was busy listneing to music and spotting things out the window. She loves playing "I spy with my little eye". I give her all kinds of clues and she gets really excited when she gets it right. At one point on the road, when Liran and I weren't quite sure where we were and if to turn back, I told her, "Raz we're exploring, we're on an adventure!". She responded dryly "It's not". But regardless, she still had fun. 

Along the road we saw a bighorn sheep and her lamb. Raz was adamant that "safe זה לא בר. זה" because she really wanted to "touch it". We expained to her that it is wild and that actually it's not safe to touch it. 

The drive was a stunning introduction to Canyonlands, as we essentialy saw the canyon from the bottom up. Tomorrow we will go to the park itself (which is up above the canyon) so we can see the bigger picture of what we saw today. 

Final Raz anecdote of the day - We have been listening to her CDs on repeat for the past 9 days, so all of us know exactly what song is coming up next. I started singing one song before it began, and Raz told me "No Ima, wait, it's coming". And then for every song, as the words were about to begin, she would let me know that it was coming. So now we know that we aren't allowed to sing in advance of the song. 

And final final anecdote - I can't remember why but both Liran and I had said thank you to Raz for something. Raz though for a moment and said "thank you אבא אומר תודה ואמא אומרת" We asked her what language each was in and she correctly identified. We then explained to her that we are speaking both languages to her so she can learn both. So now she is obsessed with languages, and every time we walk past tourists speaking French, Chinese, German or whatever language, she asks ״מה הם מדברים״
