---
layout: post
title: Day 24 Roosevelt Country, Yellowstone
---

We saw bears!

Today we spent the day in the northeast corner of the park - Roosevelt Country. According to the book this is one of the best areas in the park for wildlife spotting. We woke up in Canyon Campground, had a leisurely breakfast, and were on the road pretty late. In the morning, while Raz was waking up, Liran tried to convince her to hurry up and get dressed. She told him "סבלנות אבא, אני רוצה לשכב עם אמא". While Raz was waiting for us to be ready, she of course decided that she wanted to drive in the car. I asked her where she was driving to and she told me "owls נוסעים לפסיפיקה לראות כל מיני סוגות של". She actually tells all strangers that she lives in Pacifica. She occasionally asks about her toys (her red kitchen, her red car, her tent, her bicycle), so we tell her it's all at home. Home is a fuzzy concept, since we have also told her she has a big house waiting for her in Israel. I think it's a fuzzy concept for us too.

We decided to start with the Yellowstone River Picnic Area hike (boring name), since it was short (around 4 miles) and not too difficult. Right as we start the trail, we see two hikers coming towards us. They say that just up the trail there is a mother bear and her cub, and that there are rangers managing the traffic jam ("bear jam") and turning hikers around. We decided to take an alternative route (instead of the official trail) that was meets up with the main trail further along. The route was a steep incline up a hill and then ran parallel to the main trail, which gave us an excellent viewpoint on the mother and cub further down the hillside (and of the road and the traffic jam). The mother and cub were hanging out in the meadow, climbed a tree, climbed back down, and then crossed the road (right in front of some cars!). It was a pretty exciting beginning to the hike.

The trail wasn't as empty as some of the other ones we did, and we met all kinds of people. We are teaching Raz to be polite on the trail and say hello and thank you when people move aside. This evening when I asked her to move aside for a second so I could get something in our small caravan, she said "I'll get out of the way for you" (like we tell people on the trail when we move). We also met a man on the trail who didn't care at all about the bears. He was from Montana and told us "I only care about the bears in October because that's when I hunt them". I guess it takes all sorts.

The trail then went along the rim of a canyon leading down to Yellowstone River. I think they call it the Narrows (I'm not certain). After the initial incline, it was flat, with the cliff to the river on one side and a rolling hillside meadow on the other. We walked further along, through wildflowers and sage, and came upon a herd of bignhorn sheep with a lamb. They smelled, but that's because we were super close. They were just hanging out on the hillside on either side of the trail. 

There were so many wildflowers on the road, and Raz was "taking pictures" of everything with her flashlight (which was on a necklace around her neck - במו אבא). She told me "אני מצלמת את כל הפרחים שבגינה". She also pointed out "אמא תראי בייבי פרח". Too bad we then lost the "camera" later. She hasn't noticed yet.

The trail then continued a bit more, and then cut down towards the road to return back to the trailhead. The official trail ends and then hikers need to walk along the road, but our book suggested that we just cut backcountry through the meadow to an "erratic boulder" and back to the trail head. We tried to do so, but it was super unclear where to go, so for the final 5 minutes we walked along the road. That part wasn't so fun.

Raz is always on the look out for tracks on the trail. We saw some human footprints and she asked me "מה זה התביעות האלו". I told her they were human and she said "לא של איש, של דובי". I asked her if bears were shoes so she told me "boots כן". So maybe they were bear tracks after all.

After finishing the trail, we went and had a picnic at the trailhead. There was another family right by us, and Raz immediately went and made friends with their 2 year old. They were playing and counting. At one point his older cousin was playing the piano on the iPad, so Raz came up to her and started stroking her arm so she could get close and see too.

After the picnic, we drove further into Lamar Valley for a hike to Trout Lake. It is a 0.5 hike out to the lake, which the ranger suggested the kids could do. Fortunately our kids are hikers, since the 0.5 miles was at a very steep incline all the way to the lake. At one point Raz said ״זה קשה לי״ but we encouraged her to keep going and she didn't give up. I only picked her up at the very end, when it started to rain and I wanted to run to get cover. She also fell at one point, so I gave her a kiss to make it better. She told me "אמא זה עדיין כואה". So she got another kiss and off she went.

Trout Lake was beautiful. It was super clear and surrounded by red, purple, pink, white, cream, and yellow wildflowers. We crossed a footbridge and walked to the edge of the lake, where there was a stream full of trout spawning. They were huge and pink and green and gorgeous. Raz was really impressed by the fishies. We hung out there for a while, looking at the fish and playing in the dirt. We then continued the loop around the lake and David spotted a frog. Raz and Daniel were super excited and giggling at the sight of it, especially when it jumped towards them and into the water. We then heard a bunch of ducks quacking and saw them land on the lake. Raz was thrilled.

After Trout Lake we decided to drive back towards Fishing Bridge (where we had our reservation) and to stop if we saw people with binoculars. We stopped once, saw another black bear, and kept going. We missed the turnout for Slough Creek where we might have seen wolves. Oh well, guess we leave something for next time.

We decided to stop at Canyon campground to see if by any chance they had any sites left for tonight (unlikely) since it's such a nicer place than Fishing Bridge. Luckily for us they had 3 sites available. We decided we would get 1 site and see if we could squeeze into it, since they had no guarantee that any two sites would be adjacent (and it's a huge campground). 

So now, we're sleeping at Canyon campground. We got to have a pleasant quick dinner outside before it started to rain. Tomorrow we'll have breakfast together before Adi, David, and Daniel head south to Grand Teton and we head west, back towards the Pacific.