---
layout: post
title: Day 26 Shoshone Falls, Idaho to Rye Flat Dam, Nevada
---

We are now officially well on our way back and almost home. We woke up this morning in Massacre Rock, had breafast with a view of the Snake River, and then the Raz played with rocks and pails and water while Liran and I washed dishes and packed up the trailer. We started heading West, and decided that we would take the most direct route (get on the 93 to the 80 through Nevada and all the way home) instead of the more scenice route (continue through Idaho to Oregon and then down the 5 to get home. The scenice Idaho-Oregon route would have only added 100 miles and about 1.5 hrs, but we decided that we would be rushing through it anyway since we want to get home to have time to figure out logistics before we fly.

As I was getting the caravan ready, I found a sticker from Yellowstone. Raz said it was a police sticker and wanted me to put it on. I then explained to her that the police in the park are called rangers (she called them gingers). She then asked me to yell at her. I asked her why, and she said "because the bear is gone". I then remembered how impressed she was by the ranger in Yellowstone that was telling (yelling) people go get into their car after stopping at the side of the road to see a black bear that had already gone into the woods. So while I swept the floor I yelled at her to stay on the bed (which was her car) since the bear was already in the forest. After a while she wanted to to go back to being her mom.

We have lots of conversations while we are driving. Today Raz annouunced that she doesn't like bears. We asked her why, and she said "because they are not butterflies". She also loves looking at the map and asking where we are and where we are going.

Our first stop today was at Shoshone Falls, just outside of Twin Falls, Idaho. It's claims to be one of the largest natural waterfalls in the US (or something like that). It is very large and very wide and cascades down pretty impressively. Raz saw the rainbow from the overlook and was pretty impressed.

There is a large grassy area with picnic tables, so we saw the falls, had a picnic, and were on our way. Google maps directed us through the backroads of rural Idaho, so we saw lots of farms. People build enormous houses out here - I guess farming pays well. We also passed fields and fields of corn and what we assume are potatoes. 

We eventually made it onto the highway and starting churning out the miles. Raz played, slept, and then woke up again, and we were still driving. We were in the car for so many hours, and she was really good. I gave her all kinds of Walmart treats to pass the time - but she also just enjoyed singing with us to all of her children's songs.

Raz took a long nap, and woke up because had to get gas. Instead of being grumpy, she woke up and immediately started talking. We passed a construction site just as she was opening her eyes - ״אמא - מה הם בונים פב?״ and then ״אמא תראי - יש להם כלבלב באוטו״. She never shuts off.

She then said she was hungry, so I told her we were going to a restaurant. She was a little disappointed "אנחנו הולכים למסעדה? לא לסבא אורן וסבתא אילנה?". She is really looking forward to seeing them - so I had to explain to her that we are still far away and will get there tomorrow. She still was hungry and wanted something to eat, so she asked "to put in my mouth אמא אי רוצה משהו". How could I resist?

As I was putting her shoes on to go to the restaurant, she told me "״יש צ׳יפס במסעדה. I asked her how she knew, and she said ״כי לא מדברים שם סינית״. She remembered that the other day at the Chinese restaurant she wanted french fries, and I told her that they don't have them, they only have noodles... 

We finally arrived for dinner in a town called Winnemucca, population around 7k. It's the only incorporated city in the county (Humboldt county). The most recommended restaurant in Winnemuca is called the Martin Hotel, and it's a family style Basque restaurant. Apparently in the 1880s there was a large population of Basque in the town employed as sheepherders. The restaurant/hotel was started (in some form or another) way back then and is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. Raz was impressed by the hitching posts outsides.

The restaurant seats you along with other strangers/travelers, which sounds annoying but was actually very nice. We sat down next to an older couple from a ranch outside of Pleasanton, who make it a point to come to this restaurant every time they drive through on their way to visit their son in Utah (twice a year).

Both Liran and I ordered lamb shank, which came with a carafe of wine, bread, soup, salad, three sides, the main dish and a dessert. It was an insane amount of food, but was surprisingly good. The lamb fell off the bone, and the Basque side dishes were good too. Raz had a hard time waiting for her french fries, so the couple from Pleasanton gave her theirs. Raz had lots of questions while we were at the restaurant, like asking why the waitress "לובשת שלט" (ie why does she have the restaurant logo on her shirt).

After the early dinner in Winemucca, we continued 30 more miles to Rye Flat State Recreation Area, which is by a resevoir in the middle of nowhere. It's very basic, but has water and a dump station and is cheap ($14). It's super hot here, but we're hoping it will cool down soon. I think we were overly optimistic.

As I was putting Raz to bed this evening she asked me "איפה אנחנו". I told her we were in Nevada. ״למה אמא?״ so I explained that we are on the way to Saba Oran and Safta Ilana. ״בסניוול?״ she asked. Yes. ״אוקיי לילה טוב אמא״. 

Good night Nevada.
