---
layout: post
title: Day 25 Mesa Falls and Massacre Rock, Idaho
---

Today we had another slow and leisurely breakfast with Adi, David, and Daniel. Raz ate quicker than everyone and then got busy collecting rocks, cleaning tree stumps and getting dirty. Daniel joined in after a little while and they enjoyed a little bit longer of each other's company. We parted ways around 10, with Adi and David heading to Grand Teton and us starting to head west.

We decided we would make some stops in Yosemite along the way (no more hikes, too late and too hot). We first tried to go to Artist's Paintpots, which is a short boardwalk to some mud pots. The parking lots was overflowing and there was a traffic jam to get it, so we decided to skip it. Liran did a very elegant U-turn in the crammed parking lot with the trailer. You can tell he's been driving it for almost a month. Next we decided to quickly stopped at Gibbons Falls. It's a pretty waterfall with a paved walk to an overlook. It was also pretty full, but doable. The fall isn't extremeley high but it's pretty wide. Raz looked at it and remarked "יש למפל הזה מדרגות" since you could see that it was going over some big rocks on the way down. As we were walking back to the parking lot, Raz saw a large van. "אמא תראי את האוטו היפה הזה!". 

From Gibbons Falls we headed to Madison Junction, our last stop in the park. There was a Jr Ranger Station there, with pelts and skulls and all sorts of things for Raz to touch. She loved it. I put deer antlers on my head and she said "fawnאני ה", so I asked her what Liran and I were and she said "buck and doe". Way to go, nature girl! There was also a bookstore, where she found a book that she had wanted at another bookstore (where I told her we couldn't get it). She really wanted it, and when I told her I thought it was for babies, she said "No, it's for big girls". It's about a caravan camping in the woods at night, so I guess it's appropriate. She enjoyed reading it in the car.

We stopped for lunch ata a Chinese restaurant in Island Park, a tiny little town full of rednecks. We were expecting it to be awful, but not too many things were open. Turns out it was actually okay. Raz at first refused to try anything, but once she got some MSG in her, she realized what she was missing. As we were sitting the restaurant, Raz looked at the window and commented on every motorcyle driver and whether or not they were wearing a helmet. At one point a vintage trailer drove by and she remarked "תראו את הקרוון היפה הזה!". Looks like she's getting obsessed. 

As we were driving out of Yellowstone, we listened yet again to Peter and the Wolf. Again we discussed who is afraid of what, and Raz said that she was afraid of wolves and tigers but that "אמא תשמור עלי שלא יבוא זהב או טייגר״. Good thing that's an easy task in Israel.

We left Yellowstone and headed into Idaho. We decided that although our goal would be to get back to Sunnyvale in about 2.5 days, we would make some scenic and fun pit stops. We looked on the map and saw that the Mesa Scenic Byway didn't add much to our route, so we decided to take it. It's a gorgeous route through wildflower meadows and forests and along a river. Along the road are the Mesa Falls, which we stopped out. Good decision.

The Upper Falls overlook has a visitor's center, which was an old cabin built in the early half of the last century. In it was a room, full of animal pelts to touch, including a wolf, a grizzly and a black bear. It was like a room of death, but it was so well organized and interesting that we pet every single one. There was also an activity station for kdis to color, and Raz spent time coloring a butterfly and a dragonfly.

I told her from there we were going to see some more waterfalls, and she said "אני לא רוצה מפלים. אני רוצה את סבא אורן וסבתא אילנה". I explained to her that it would still take a few more days to get there. Good thing I managed to convince her to come to the waterfalls, because they were worth it. The waterfall overlook  took us right to the edge of the falls, where the water spilled over. It was very impressive and probably the best falls overlook I've seen. Raz insisted on holding on to her butterfly, so unfortunately it flew away over the guardrail. She was crushed and couldn't stop crying. We talked through it and when we finished with the waterfall we went to go get another one to color. Later, when I was changing her diaper, she told me "״אמא התאכזבתי. I asked her why and she said "אני לא יודעת". So I explained to her that she was disappointed that her butterfly flew away after she had spent so much time on it. So she hugged my face and said "Don't worry Ima. Another one". 

As we walked back up to the car we passed some bear poo. Raz said "״אני אביא שקית כחולה לאסוף את זה. She is actually really interested in animal poop. Yesterday on the hike, we saw some sheep poo, and she said "חיה ישבה פה ואמרה פה מקום יפה לעשות קקי". Now if only she would do the same.

After Mesa Falls Raz fell asleep and Liran started churning out the mileage. We passed through the smallest town in Idaho (Warm River, population 3). Did you know the entire population of Idaho is only 1.56 million? He drove and drove and drove and we passed through beautiful countryside (an a Confederate flag), with bright green fields and lots of lakes and wildflowers. Raz started to get bored, so I pulled out a Barbie doll I had been saving for her. It was "camping Barbie", so she came with binoculars and a compass, which was perfect. Raz asked for us to put music on for her so she could dance. She also found random leftovers from past snacks in her chair and started eating them. We asked her what she was eating and she told us "אני לא יודעת. אני מלקקת". And then when we told her it was gross, she made sure to tell us "זה לא איכס". Wild child. We eventually reached the town of Chubbuck, and after a Walmart stop, drove to Massacre Rock State Park. 

The name is pretty dramatic, but it's actually a calm and quiet campsite on the Snake River. I just heard coyotes a few minutes ago, but now it's quiet again. For some reason they had a ton of openings, and it's a full hookup, so we went for it. Liran made shnitzel for dinner while Raz played outside with buckets and rocks and water. It was hot and she was in heaven.

As I was getting her ready for bed and putting on a diaper she farted in my face. I told her it was stinky, so she said "!״אני בואש. And then she proceeded to tell me that actually both Liran and I were skunks too.

Our neighbors here in the campsite put up a giant flagpole with an American flag, and have it decorated with LEDs now that the sun is down. Happy 4th of July.