---
layout: post
title: Day 22 Norris Country, Yellowstone
---

Today we woke up at Mammoth Springs Campground to a beautiful mountain view. We decided to take it easy this morning since we were meeting David and Adi at 11. Raz and Liran decorated and wrote postcards, whileI finally washed three days worth of dishes. Gross. Yesterday, in our brief moment of service on the Beaver Pond hike, we had called Adi and told her to meet us in Canyon Country. But this morning, after looking at the map again, we decided it would make the most sense to meet them at Norris. But, of course, we had no service at the campground. We decided to drive to Gardiner to dump our tanks, buy food, and call Adi to revise the plan.

Gardiner is a town that is essentialy completely for tourists. I think it was initially a ranching town, but except for some nice storefronts, it seems like that history is mostly gone. Raz and I waited at the post office parking lot while Liran went to go do some shopping. Raz was very excited about going to the mail box and mailing the post cards. We put each one in the mail box individually. By the time we were finished dumping and shopping and mailing, we realized we were going to be late to meet Adi. Fortunately, we had a feeling they would be late too since they had traffice coming in from West Yellowstone. 

We arrived at Norris Meadows picnic area at noon, only a few minutes after Adi and David. Raz was very excited to see Dandush, and kept asking if they could take a shower together and if she could see his caravan. Their caravan is much more spacious than ours (which made Liran pretty jealous). Raz and Daniel immediately starting playing together - collecting rocks, sticks, running around and immitating each other. Of course Raz wanted to drive in their RV, so they both sat in the front seats and drove and drove and drove.

When we were pulling into the picnic spot, we saw that the Norris hot springs were temporarly closed (no more parking), so we decided to have a leisurely picnic and try again later. By the time we were done eating and playing, the Norris springs had reopened (and the parking lot was empty). 

As we arrived at the hot springs, Raz remarked "דנדוש תראה! יש אדים חמים מהאדמה". She adopted her teacher voice and tried to explain to him what she was seeing. Raz was amazing walking along the boardwalk. She walked about 80% of the 1.5 mile loop. She was very curious about the geysers, about the colors, and about our fellow tourists. She told me that birds like to drink from the hot springs and take a bath there. There was a huge variety of geyesers and pools and colors - it was really beautiful. Lots of turquoise and orange and steam and gurgling. At the end we stopped at the book store. There was a book that Raz really wanted, but I explained to her that we had to go and that the guy at the cash register was busy and that maybe we would buy it a different time. She listened to me, and then calmly went to put it back on the shelf. I had so much fun walking around with her on the boardwalk, showing her things and asking her questions, and then even in the bookstore she was calm and mature. She's a joy.

Raz's speaking has improved dramatically over the past few days, and her vocabulary in Hebrew is huge. Although it seems she prefers to speak Hebrew (and sleep talks in Hebrew), she knows that with David she speaks English. He has a blue water bottle, so she brought it to him and told him "It's blue, like mine". At one point she had an empty box that used to be for candles. I asked her what was in the box and she told me "נרות". I told her that in English, we say candles, so she immediately went to David and told him "This box was for candles". Just trying to make conversation...

After Norris, we headed over to our campsite at Fishing Bridge. We were lucky to get two spots next to each other, but when we arrived we were very disappointed by the campground. They are extremely cramped, without picnic tables, grills, or firepits. And tons of aggressive mosquitos. It is also not in the most convenient of locations. But, we have reservations and it's convenient to not have to worry about where to sleep. Fortunately, Adi and David have a folding table and we all have camping chairs, so we could have dinner together outside. We decided that we'll just have all of our future dinenrs at picnic sites (which have tables and grills) and only come back to the RV site for sleeping. No point in hanging around here.

While the adults were cooking dinner and getting ready, Raz and Daniel drove in Adi and David's RV. They took turns and played very nicely together. When they were sick of that, they went outside and collected rocks and sticks using our sand toys. David set up some music outside with a bluetooth speaker, so Raz asked him if it's "children's". But as soon as he put on Lana Del Ray, she was fascinated and started dancing. 

We sat and had dinner, but Raz wasn't very hungry and was pretty tired. At one point she got up and told Liran "״אני הולכת להביא משהו מהקראוון של עדי. When Liran asked her what she was going to bring she gave him a silent look. She really wanted to drive in their RV, but we wouldn't let her because she would be there alone. So then she went to our car and wanted to drive there, but we wouldn't let her because she would be out of eyesight. So she started to bawl. I took her aside and asked her why she was crying. She said "״רציתי לנהוד בקראוון של עדי והיא אמרה לי לא. רציתי לנהוד באוטו של אבא ואמרו לי לא. אני כל כך עצובה. I was amazed that she was able to name her feelings so well. I told her that I think she is also "״מאוכזבת, and she was very interested to learn what that meant. Her language skills are really improving, but we need to work on her English more.

Tomorrow we are going to Geyeser Country. We're planning on walking around the boardwalks and then doing a short 3.2 mile easy hike with maybe some possibility for swimming at the end. Our goal is to leave at 7AM. I hope we leave before 9AM.