---
layout: post
title: Day 3 Zion
---

We woke up this morning in beautiful Sand Hollow and drove through gorgeous Highway 9 to Zion. 

We had heard Zion would be busy this time of year, but we had no idea how busy. There are no private vehicles allowed in Zion,
meaning that you need to find a place to park in Springdale (the town right at the entrace to Zion) and then take a shuttle to the park. 
From there,  you need to take another shuttle (the park one), to the hike you want to do. 

We felt very lucky since we managed to score an RV site in Springdale, which is right at the entrance to the park. 
There is a shuttle stop right outside our RV park, which is great. But what we didn't know, is that the Springdale to Zion shuttle would have standing-room only
and get stuck in a traffic jam entering Zion. Once we made it to Zion, we had to wait another 45 minutes in line for another shuttle to take us into the park.

We thought that once we got into the park things would calm down. We decided to do the Emerald Pool Trail - which leads to three pools of water.
For the first pool you walk under a sort of sprinkling water fall, the second pool is the one that drops to the first (and has a sheer drop), 
and the final pool is surroudned by cliff walls and hanging gardens. There are stunning views along the way. 

The walk to the first pool is mostly paved and only 0.6 miles, and Raz did it mostly herself. The only reason we stopped to put her in the carrier is that
she felt the urge to stop every few steps and play in the red sand. Unfortunately, the trail was PACKED, meaning that if Raz stopped, there was a traffic jam behind her. 
We were constantly either letting people pass or passing other people, and there were seldom few moments when we were alone.

Even with Raz in the carrier she was curious about everything around her. We talked about the red rocks, the leaves, the cacti, and the boys who caught lizards (not kind!).
Raz sang songs to herself (this old man, he played one, he played knick knack on my thumb...). We also played a letters game - Raz said a letter and then we all thought of all the words we could that started with it.

At one point today, Raz said something that was funny. Liran and I started to laugh, and she demanded to know what was funny. She is also developing a 
sense of humor, and knows when she is saying or doing something funny. Today at the playground, she slid down the slide once and flew off on her butt.
The next time I caught her. The third time she said, "Ima, leval. Lo litpos oti" and with her finger did "no no no". She thought it was hilarious
and then started singing the 10 fingers song to show me where she knew to do like that with her finger. 

Tomorrow Liran is hiking Angel's Landing and I am taking Raz to the Riverwalk. Zion is so croweded that we'll sleep one more night here and then head off to Kanab, UT.
