---
layout: post
title: Day 13 Bryce Canyon
---

Today we woke up in Kodachrome State Park. Liran hiked a bit of it last night during the sunset, and his pictures are goregous. Definitely a nice place to stay and to camp. We decided to leave early (skip breakfast, not make Raz's bed...) so we could get to Bryce early enough for a solid hike and some siteseeing before the smoke set in. Kodachrome is not far from Bryce, so we managed to get to Bryce pretty early (after stopping at paying $17 for weak coffee and stale croissants in Tropic). On the drive over to Bryce, Raz was putting things in between her toes - she announced "put in my feet, like a monkey!".


Raz had a nightmare last night (again about a dog). She woke up this morning, in our bed, and told me "היה לי מפחיד בלילה במיטה שלי. היה כלבלב שנבח". So we got to cuddle part of the night.

We decided we would do the Queens Garden - Navajo Loop trail in Bryce, which is the most popular hike but also hits up most of the interesting geological features. We started the trail at around 9AM, so it was still pretty cool and clear. The trail takes you down into the "canyon" (Bryce isn't actually a canyon), then among the hoodoos and geological features. It isn't a long hike (2.9 miles), but it has 600ft of elevation gain (since you drop down and then come back up). Liran was as usual, carrying Raz on his back, and he got comments from pretty much everyone we passed.

The trail wasn't too crowded at the beginning, but started filling up as we went along. At one point, Liran stopped to pee (which I thought was a bad idea, because of all the people). He had me keep watch. Raz was still on his back. As soon as he was done, Raz announced אבא עשה פיפי! כל כבוד אבא!״". So maybe we weren't all that discrete.

The trail begins with a steep descent to the Queen's Garden, a collection of hoodoos with one that apparently looks like Queen Victoria (you need to squint and have an imagination). We stopped there for a snack, and of course played "I spy". Raz is obsessed with rhymes now (she's always announcing זה חרוז!״", so we are now making sure to incorporate that into our repertoire ("I spy with my little eye something that rhymes with lock and starts with an R")

After seeing the Queen's Garden the trail goes down further into the canyon, goes through some arches, and then begins to climb back up to the rim. The scenery is amazing, with red, white and yellow rocks towering above you. The ascent is pretty steep, with thirty switchbacks, but Liran powered through it. Afterwards it's a 1 mile hike along the rim to get back to the starting point (which Raz did by herself). The hike is supposed to take 2-3 hours, but Liran and I think it only took us 1.5hrs - we still are having a hard time keeping track of time.

After the hike, we drove 17 miles down to Rainbow Point, the end of the scenic route in Bryce. We had a small picnic and took in the view. It was pretty, but the smog from the fire made things hazy. After Rainbow point we went to a few more overlooks, but were disappointed by all of them. After seeing the view from the hike and from Sunset and Sunrise point (the end and start of the hike) in the morning when it was clear, these points were less impressive. 

We then made one final stop at Bryce and Inspiration points, and those were worth it. Those give you an almost 360 degree view of the canyon, hoodoos, needles, rocks, etc, and are really impressive. That was our finale in the park. 

On our way out we made a quick stop at the visitor's center to hear which roads were closed due to the fire. The visitor's center has a really interesting museum, and it was difficult to pull Raz away. She even got to look through a telescope at the sun, which was more exciting for us than for her. They had an interesting exhibit about the effect of light pollution on star visibility - it was really enlightinging to see how the addition of a single lightpost affects nightime visibility.

From Bryce we drove up to Richfield, which is the next big town. We made a pit stop at the Walmart, which was also an anthroplogical experience. Lots of pregnant teenagers, really friendly people, and everyone is white. No Priuses in sight.

We are staying the night at the Richfield KOA. As we were driving up, Liran looks around and is semi-disgusted by the neighborhood. Lots of blight and weirdos sitting on porches. Then we get to the KOA and see that it sits behind a trailer park. Liran wanted to turn around, but we were already boxed in with someone behind us. We drive in, and turns out the KOA is actually really nice. Large trees, grass, clean, great pool. It's kind of surreal.

I took Raz to the pool while Liran made dinner. Raz enjoyed putting her head underwater (and commanding me to do the same) and playing with the pool noodles in the pool. She is convinced she knows how to swim, which is terrifying. Today in the car she said "פעם פעם שהייתי בייבי קטן לא ידעתי לשחות. " So Liran reminded her that even now, she can swim ״רק עם אבא״. Her response - "לא, בלי יד". Terrifying.

Tomorrow we head to Salt Lake to visit the Mormons.


