---
layout: post
title: Day 17 Grand Teton
---

We feel like we're in Switzerland. Everything is bright green, and there are endless colorful carpets of  yellow, purple, pink, red, and white wildflowers everyone. The Tetons tower above us, decorated with snow. And of course lakes and lakes and more lakes. We had no idea that this national park would be so gorgeous. Our neighbors in Salt Lake City had told us it was pretty, but they just drove through it on their way to Yellowstone. I have a feeling that's what a lot of people do, but I think this is beautiful in its own right.

As we were driving, I told Raz that she can't share the water bottle with Aba because he has a cold sore. Her response "?hug ״יש לאבא פצע? בוא נבדוק. לתת לו 

We woke up this morning in Montpelier and drove to Grand Teton National Park. We drove on Highway 89, which took us from Idaho to Wyoming through some very small towns. Most with Mormon churches (all which look alike). We stopped in Afton, the largest town in the area (population ~2000) for gas and groceries. They had both a Mormon church and a temple, right by each other. The town's main street is like something out of a book about small town America, with old time shops and stuff. They have the world's largest elk antler arch in the entrance to main street (elks shed their antlers annually, so no elk were harmed in its making I assume).

We then stopped at the Afton grocery store. At the parking lot, a woman stopped to comment about Raz's hair. Raz pointed to the caravan and said "That's my house. It has wheels." She then asked us where we were from. When we said we were from Israel, she said that her daughter married an Israeli a long time ago. Small world. Entering the grocery store, we felt like we had gone back in time. Everyone knew each other (the customers, the clerks, the bagging guys). No one was in a hurry to get anywhere, and I don't know if that's just because they are like that or because there is nothing to hurry to in Afton. While Liran was picking out vegetables, Raz and I were busy weighing cantelopes and learning how the scale works (she had to predict if the needle would go left or right if I added another melon, and what number she thought it would be). Multiple people came up to us, asked us what language we were speaking, where we were from etc. Everyone was genuinely interested and friendly.

The drive to Grand Tetons wasn't super short, and Raz was getting bored. On our last Walmart stop, I had grabbed a bunch of small party favors to put in her toy backpack. Some of them were animal rings (a panda, an elephant, a frog an a chick). I had no idea these would entertain her for over an hour. Raz for some reason got very attached to the frog ring. I had it on my finger, and her and the frog (aka me in an annoying voice) held a conversation for over an hour. She explained to the frog the different things she saw out the window, she taught her what an excavator whas, she taught him different songs, they danced together, she gave him instructions. It was super cute, but by the end my throat hurt from my frog voice.

We decided to stay as close to the park as possible and not in Jackson or one of the neighboring towns. Apparently the towns around Yellowstone and Grand Teton are very wealthy. We drove through Jackson and were suprised by how yuppie and crowded it was. We definitely didn't want to stay there (I think I saw that one of the places there had hookup sites for $95/night!). We decided to stay in a campground called Gros Ventre, which is a large (about 300 sites) campsite without hookups. We got a beautiful spot with a view of the mountains, set up our caravan, had a late lunch, and headed out to see the park.

We did a scenic drive around the park, to see various landmarks, including Mormon homesteads, Snake River overlook, Jenny lake, and Signal Peak. Driving up to Signal Peak is a windy 5 mile road, but the view from the top is spectacular (the mosquitos less so). Raz took the dinosaur and the bug spray to see the view too. She calls the bugspray ״ינטוש״. No wonder she's so attached to it. She also discovered Saba Oran's binoculars. She took them with her on the walk to the viewpoint, and then looked through them the entire drive down the mountain (it was so windy, I don't know how she didn't puke). I told her they were Saba Oran's and she had to take good care of them. Her response "פעם פעם זה היה של סבא אורן. עכשיו זה שלי". Raz is also obsessed with Liran's camera right now, so anything that she can click or turn (like the flashlight or the adjustable knob on her helmet) is a camera. She told me "זה לא משקפת, סליחה, זאת מצלמה".

On the drive we also saw both moose and bison. The bison were much larger than those we saw at the Grand Canyon North Rim. Liran commented that they were very pretty. Raz's response - ״הם לא חיות יפות. הם חיות בר״

We arrived back at the campsite pretty late. Raz immediately got busy getting dirty. While Liran and I prepared dinner, she celebrated a birthday party for an ant. She made a cake and sang songs. Liran made delicious steaks, rice, and salad. Raz took a super quick shower (yes, it's dry camping, Liran's daughter will never skip a shower). Tomorrow we are going to do a hike or two in the park. All around the park and int he brochures and maps it says to be bear aware and gives all kinds of tips of what to do if you see a grizzly or a black bear. We were too cheap to buy bear spray at the visitor's center ($45!), so wish us luck...
