---
layout: post
title: Day 8 Gooseneck State Park, Natural Bridges National Monument, Arches at Sunset
---

What a long day. Today we woke up in Monument Valley Camp Park, and had breakfast on the grass outside our RV facing the stunning vistas of Monument Valley with horses running free just across the fence from us. Raz was impressed by the horses and how fast the galloped and she said "Like chia". I didn't quite understand her, so I asked, "Chia? I'm not sure I know what that is". So she explained, "lion צ׳יה החבר של". Cheetah! Good for Raz - explaining to her dumb Ima.

The campground host suggested that instead of driving straight up to Moab on the 163 via Bluff, we take a scenic detour and turn off to the 261 after Mexican Hat (a tiny dusty town named after a rock formation that kind of looks like an upside sombrero). There is one part of the 261 which isn't paved, and which has signs along it forbidding trailers and RVs - he said that he used to drive a snow plow up and down that route and that we should be fine. That they only put it to discourage Europeans who only know how to drive Mini Coopers. So we went for it.

The drive was windy and amazing. It climbed up to the top of a mesa and afforded sweeping canyon views all the way to Monument Valley. When we got to the unpaved part, we were a little worried by all of the warning signs, but at this point it was too narrow to turn back. Liran drove the three miles up through unpaved switchbacks, towing the trailer, and we kept waiting for it to get really difficult. And then, it just suddenly ended and it was wide open highway. It was really a joke. It seems that in Utah (or at least in the touristy places of the state), there is an overabundance of caution because they deal with lots of stupid tourists. Same thing with the Horseshoe hike and Angels Landing at Zion.

Our next stop was Gooseneck State Park, so called because the San Juan branch of the Colorado River flows 6 miles while only covering 1.5 miles in distance by zigzagging back and forth over itself. We drove over there, looked over at the viewpoint, and drove out. Was nice, definitely special, but not something as amazing as what we had just seen in Monument Valley. 

From Gooseneck we drove to Natural Bridge National Monument. This is a pretty small National Monument, with an 8 mile drive that leads to three different naturally formed stone bridges (*not* arches, as we later learned). After speaking to the ranger, we decided on a 4 mile hike with ladders down to a gorge underneath a bridge. But after having a picnic lunch and realizing how damn hot it was, we decided on a 0.6 mile hike to a another bridge. The hike was steep, with stairs at some parts and slickrock and sand on others. Since it was such a short hike, we decided that Raz could walk. She did walk for parts of it - and other parts rode on Aba's shoulders. She was a trooper - it was SO hot, and she mostly walked without a problem (except for the occasional sand in the shoe). When we got to the bottom, we were under a giant bridge - so we just lay there and cooled off on the cool rocks. Raz and Aba looked at airplanes in the sky, practiced taking pictures with the camera, and just hung out. The hike back was a pain, but we made it.

We hopped back in the car and drove out of Natural Bridges out to the 191 North to Canyonlands. We passed the Needles entrace to Canyonlands and decided to skip it - opting instead to make it to Moab. We arrived at the Moab visitor's center and were shocked by how hot it was. And it was already 5pm. After speaking to a ranger, we picked a hike for tomorrow and started calling around to find a place to stay. Everything was booked, so we are now staying at an RV park just outside the city - crammed like sardines. After settling down, giving Raz a shower, and eating dinner at a restaurant (big treat), we decided to venture into Arches just to see it in the last daylight hours. Raz fell asleep while we were there and so we transfered her to bed when we got back to the RV. Some tears, but she's now sleeping peacefully.

We only saw the beginning of Arches (Courthouse Point, Balancing Rock, the Windows), but it was gorgeous. Apparently it gets SUPER packed there during the day, so getting to enjoy it in the early evening, when not many people were around, was a treat. Tomorrow we are doing the Delicate Arch hike, which is supposed to be really difficult. Since it's super hot and super crowded, we are starting it early. We plan to be at the trailhead by 6:30AM. We should be done by 9:30, and then we can head back to the RV park for pool, AC, and nap. Liran and I just finished packing our breakfast and are now off to bed at 11:15PM. Lucky us.

Sorry that there are not more Raz moments today. I took notes and then they got deleted. So all I got is Cheetah. Oh, and Raz drew all over her leg with a purple marker. Looks like we tattooed our toddler...
