---
layout: post
title: Day 7 Monument Valley
---

You can tell it's a true vacation when neither Liran nor I know what day it is. But this vacation is pretty extreme since we also have no idea what time it is. Crossing the border between Utah and Arizona is confusing, since there is an hour change, and yet our phones seem to arbitrarily adjust the timezone or not. We keep deciding on the time based on what is most convenient for us. 

Today we work up in Lake Powell to a beautiful lake view. Raz woke up late, since we kept her up late last night at Lone Rock beach. Liran took her down to the water to play, while I washed dishes from the past three meals (we got lazy). Fortunately, the sun was blazing, so everything dried pretty much instantly.

We then went to Horseshoe Bend, which is where the Colorado River makes a U-turn. It’s a short 1.5 hike, but no shade and pretty consistent incline on the way back. The parking lot was packed with tour buses, and there was a giant flashing sign at the entrance to the hike warning people that there is “EXTREME HEAT” and to “WEAR GOOD SHOES”. There was also a sign telling people how much water to bring and to be careful not to fall off the cliff. The hike was okay, pretty hot and sandy, and Liran carried Raz. On the way we saw all kinds of tourists completely unprepared for walking in the sun. Black jeans, sweatshirts, high heeled sandals. The horseshoe was pretty cool, but again, pretty crowded. People were right on the ledge, and I can totally see how people would slip and fall (no railing). On the way back Raz wanted to walk. We let her walk the last stretch, but she kept stopping to stand on one foot and pour sand out of her sandals. So it took a while. At one point I thought she had something in her hand, so I asked her, and she said “Ima, I have fingers in my hand”. Fair enough.

We then took a pit stop at the Walmart in Page to stock up on random things. The tour guide from Antelope Canyon had told us that people come on the tour and are excited to meet the Navajos, but that they should just go down the street to the Walmart, which is where the true gathering of nations is. As Raz was in the cart, I checked ingredients on all kinds of snack before putting them in the cart. If it was something Raz wanted, she would say “זה בסדר אמא, זה טוב” if she saw me taking too long to read the ingredients and make a decision.

After Walmart, we started driving east towards the Navajo tribal lands. Our destination was Monument Valley Tribal Park, a valley full of enormous red buttes, mesas, and totems that contrast with the green of the valley floor. As we drove through the reservation, we passed tiny towns and dusty roadside stalls. It seemed a bit as though we had left the US, both the poverty and the apparent disarray - nothing really seems organized or put together.

We had made reservations that morning for the most well known campsite (Goulding), which also has a store, a gas station and a lodge. But when we got there, we were disappointed. It was sort of a parking lot at the foot of a butte, with no view of the amazing valley just beyond. So we asked around and found an RV site just down the road with grass and a perfect view of the monuments. It’s a brand new place, and the owner is really nice (building the picnic table for each site himself). He let us borrow his grill since the ones he ordered for the campsite haven’t arrived yet. It’s a good business because it is the only other full hookup spot in the area. We told him he should check out Page, since there is a lack of sites there. He said it’s too expensive - that seven acres cost 1.5 million. He gave us a tip to go to Natural Bridge National Monument - that it’s as pretty as Arches but less crowded. We’ll go there tomorrow.

After settling down and before dinner, we drove to see the monuments. Entrance to the park is $20, and it's a 17 mile dirt road that you drive along. It is incredibly scenic, and you have to hold yourself back from stopping to take a photograph every 100 feet. Some parts look as though they were painted for a movie set. There were some other tourists (we ran into a group of Israelis), but it was so refreshing to be relatively alone after the zoo at Zion and Antelope Canyon.

Raz was a trooper, and even though it was already well past her bedtime (although it kind of depends if you are in AZ or UT), she was talking, asking questions, and singing. She like to show us what she saw in the monuments ״תראי אמא - זה כמו אישה״. When she put on her sunglasses, we told her she looked nice, so she said “מה המשקפיים האלו?” with her exaggerated intonation. 

When we got back, Raz had her usual outdoor shower. When I brought her to the grass and wrapped her in a towel, I asked her “נו, כבר עשית אמבטיה כזאת והתנגבת על הדשא?״ Her response was “כן, עם סבא אורן וסבתא אילנה לפני שבועיים”. After bath, we sat down for dinner with the view of the buttes and setting sun. Raz didn’t have much patience to eat, so she wandered around the grass, played in the red dirt, and of course, dirty again and collected rocks in her bucket. She found a used zip tie, and exclaimed “אוי! אני צריכה בדיוק את זה. זה כזה שמשחילים“. 

And, finally, another closing Raz moment. She was in the car seat, throwing a water bottle up and down, and showing me how she could catch it (almost). I told her she was doing magic. So every time she would do it, she said “תראי אמא, אני עושה קסם”. And when I asked her how she learned to do that, she said “מעוז. הוא עשה את זה אתמול ולימד אותי”. So thanks Oz for the stealth visit.
