---
layout: post
title: Day 22 Geyser Country, Yellowstone
---

Today we spent the day in Geyser Country exploring the different geological features. We started the day off at Old Faithful, which was due to erupt at 9:28AM+/-10min. As we were waiting, Raz found a ladybug. She gently picked it up, let it walk all over her hand, and called Daniel over to see it. She explained to him it was a lady bug, and when it flew, that it had wings. While we were all waiting for the geyser, they spent the time with the bug. She also decided to put a rock in my bellybutton. As the geyser went off (very impressive), Raz heard some people clapping, so she joined in. Liran remarked that if this was in Israel, the whole crowd would be clapping and cheering.

We then walked along the 3 mile boardwalk to see the different geysers and hotsprings of the Upper Geyser Basin. We passed a geyser and Liran said that it was called Oblong Geyser. Raz said ״אבא אומר שזה אובלונג גייזר, אני אומרת שזה מים. Quite true. Raz and I also still play the game where I say גזר she says חסה and then we go on and on naming vegetables. Today Adi said "geyser", but Raz misheard it and yelled out "!״חסה.

Raz is really impressed by the signs warning people not to get off the boardwalk. Today she even warned Liran, "!״אבא תזהר as he walked ahead of us. Raz refused to be in the baby carrier, so she walked most of the 3 mile loop (at least half if not more). She was quite a trooper. The final destination in this loop was the Morning Glory Pool, a deep and clear turquoise pool ringed with orange and white. Raz saw it and said "וואו זה כ״כ עמוק! יש בזה ירוק וכחול וכתום ולבן". I told her to remember those colors so she could draw them later (we never had time to draw - maybe tomorrow).

As usual, Raz was pointing out things along the trail to us and telling us who has bear spray and who is a ranger. We also saw the occasional animal poop, so sometimes she would ask "זה אבן או קקי שהתייבש?" After the boardwalk we stopped at the Old Faithful Inn to see the historic building (and to pee). As we were all leaving, Raz discovered a newspaper dispenser. She found it fascinating and refused to leave. We all left the building and I told Raz that I was leaving, goodbye, hoping that she would come along after me. Her response: "see you later alligator". Looks like my daughter isn't worried about being abandoned.

The boardwalk around Upper Basin took us almost 3 hours (we were very slow), so we decided we would stop for lunch before continuing to see more geysers. We stopped at a picnic site next to our next destination (Midway Geyser Basin). Since it had a grill, Liran grilled corn, steak, and chicken. Everything was delicious. While Adi, David, and Liran made food, the kids (and me) were busy playing. Raz first made me pinecone שוקו and gave me a twig as a straw to drink. She then decided she was making soup and a birthday cake. She carefully used a small spoon and created three little mounds, and then found lots of little pine needles and decorated each cake with many many candles. Daniel also joined in for a bit, but he was more interested in digging and in putting and clearning rocks off of the boulder they were using as a "kitchen".

After lunch, Adi, Liran, Raz and I headed to see Midway Basin, and specifically Grand Prismatic Spring. This is known as the most beautiful thermal feature in the park, and there is a very crowded 0.5 mile boardwalk that leads to it. Liran and I were optimistic that Raz would sleep, so we put her in the carrier with a pacifier. Instead, she didn't shut up the entire time and narrarated the walk with everything she saw and loads of questions. She has started talking nonstop recently - from the second she opens her eyes, until she goes to sleep. No silence. Ever.

The Grand Prismatic Spring is gorgeous. It's huge and steamy and deep turquoise with orange strips eminating from it. There was actually a short hike we had intended to do to view it from above (where apparently it looks like an eye crying orange tears), but the trail was closed. From the boardwalk the steam also looked turquoise, which was impressive, but it would have been nice to do the hike. We saw some people ignoring the signs that the trail was closed, but we decided to be good citizens and obey.

After Midway, we headed to West Thumb Geyser Basin. These geysers are less active than the ones in the other geyser basins, but they sit right on Lake Yellowstone. It was pretty impressive to see geysers coming out of the lake, as well as deep turquoise pools with the lake as a background. Raz walked part of the boardwalk herself, and at one point Liran showed her animal tracks. He told her that he thought it was bison. She said that she thouht it was bison, moose, and elk. We asked her if she thought they were having a party since they were all there. She said yes. So we asked her why we weren't invited. She said ״כי הם חיות בר!". Duh, silly parents. We don't get invited to wild animal parties.

Daniel has been a bit sick, and Raz has been concerned. She keeps giving him water to drink (poor kid, he's already hydrated enough), and keeps asking us why he is sick. In the car we were listening to a song about a sick bear, and she suddenly said "״הדוב חולה וגם דנדוש חולה. 

From West Thumb we started heading back to our campsite at Fishing Bridge. We decided to have a pitstop for dinner at a picnic site on the way. After stopping at three sites (and rejecting them), we finally settled on a beautiful lakeside site. The kids played with the trees and pine needles and buckets while the adults made dinner. Raz kept collecing "brushes" from pine needles and giving them to Daniel. They spent the time brushing the trees, jumping off of tree stumps, and peeling bark off of the trees. 

When we got back into the car, Raz said she had something stuck in her mouth. We checked, and all of her upper left molars were covered in sap. When we got back to the caravan, we lay her on the bed, and she obediently let us clean her teeth (using a flashlight and a toothpick). She was so good, she kept her mouth wide open with both Liran and my fingers in her mouth. We think she learned her lesson.

There were other amazing Raz moments today, but I didn't have a chance to write them all down. She is so fun that I can't keep up!

Tomorrow we are going to Canyon Country for a 6 mile hike along the South Rim and to some lakes. From there we'll do some North Rim viewpoints. Should be fun!