---
layout: post
title: Day 18 Grand Teton Day 2
---

Today we woke up in Gros Ventre campground in Grand Teton National Forest. For dry camping, we're doing pretty well. Showering each night, brushing teeth, sleeping in a nice warm bed. And waking up with a killer view. Much better than a hotel. The forecast said it would rain today, so we decided on a short 3 mile hike around Jenny Lake to Hidden Falls, with a return trip via boat across the lake. No rain was forecast until 11, so we figured we had plenty of time. Since trailhead parking fills up by 9am, Liran and I got ready while Raz slept, and when she woke up we quickly got her dressed and ate breakfast on the way to the trailhead.

The trail is pretyt popular with families, and while it wasn't a packed trail, we definitely weren't alone. Besides the fact that the trail is heaily traveled, everyone is walking around with bear spray in a holster, ready for action, so we definitely didn't need any. The trail goes around the lake, and climbs up to a viewpoint. Initially Raz refused to sit in the "horsey" (the backpack on Liran's back) and insisted on walking. This mean that every few steps she would stop, pick up a rock, talk to an ant, scratch the mud, or draw a circle with a stick. It was cute, but we were in a hurry to fight the rain. Eventually, she agreed to get on Aba's back.

The trail itself was beautiful, with lake and forest views. That being said, I didn't think it was as breathtaking as some of the other hikes we did. We took a pit stop at the peak of the hike, on some granite boulders with a view of the lake. There were so many mosquitos, so of course we slathered on the bug spray. Raz is very attached to her ״ינטוש״, and she insisted on putting it on herself. After rolling it on her arms and legs, she did her forehead, the back of her neck and her belly. She was quite thorough. 

When we reached the waterfall, we started to hear thunder. Apparently, we hiked slower than we planned. The waterfall was enormous and gushing with water, and just as we arrived, it started to rain. Fortunately, Liran had packed all of our rain gear, including a rain cover for the baby backpack, which had nylon windows. Raz loved it. She got to wear her new yellow raincoat. She looked at it and realized that mine was yellow too and Liran's was red. I told her she looked like a little chick. Her response "אני אפרוח, את תרנגולת. ואבא תרנגול".

We took some quick photos by the waterfalls, but unfortuanately my phone was getting soaked and the photos aren't so great. As we are walking from the falls, in the pouring rain, it begins to hail. Raz is fascinated. The hail collected in the groove between Liran's back and the backpack, so Raz enjoyed a hail sampler. She thought it was amazing, and enjoyed sucking on a few pieces. 

We waited under a tree with some people for the rain to die down. At some point I lost my patience and we decided that since we were already soaked, we might as well keep walking. We were only 0.5 mile from the boat dock, so we decided to go for it. When we arrived at the boat dock, there was already a line. Most people didn't want to continue on the different trails on this side of the lake, so were taking the boat back to the trailhead. Raz enjoyed the boat back, and liked getting splashed in the face by the water (even though it was freezing).

By the time we got back to our campsite, it was sunny and warm, so we had a picnic lunch. Raz really loves olives right now and calls them ״זיתין״ (for both singular and plural). She saw that Liran was making a sandwich, so of course, she wanted to be "כמו אבא". She took a piece of bread, and we made a sandwich for her. She looked at it, and asked Liran "אכלת כזה פעם? פעם פעם לפני שבועיים". That's her new favorite word שבועיים. When we ask her what it means, she says she doesn't know. She is also constantly asking us what we are doing. Liran let out a burp, and her response was "אבא מה אתה עושה". She also asks what things are, even though she knows. So I've started responding to her by telling her "זה גזר". She laughs and tells me ״זה חסה״. Silly girl with a sense of humor.

After a two hour nap, we headed out the the Rockefeller Preserve.

The Rockefeller preserve is a small (3000 acre I think) preserve that's managed by the National Park Service (and I think is part of Grand Teton). Apparently Rockefeller decided that this area was worth preserving, and started purchasing large tracts of land from ranchers around this area in the 20s and 30s. He tried to donate it to the federal government to expand Grand Teton, but due to opposition from ranchers in Wyoming, Congress refused to make it a national park. I think then Rockefeller threatened to sell it to the highest bidder or something, so President Roosevelt made it a National Monument. Congress (again due to pressure from the ranchers) then passed that essentially nullified the national monument, which President Roosevelt vetoed. So basically, after a lot of back and forth, a large parcel of land was added to Grand Teton (in 1949 I think). Rockefeller set aside 3000 acres of that lande to remain his private estate, which he then willed to his son Laurence. His son then donated those remaining 3000 acres to the National Park Service, hence the Laurance Rockefeller Preserve.

We arrived at the preserve at around 5:30PM after the visitors' center had already closed. They severely limit the number of cars that can come to the preserve, so there is a small parking lot. Since we came late, we had parking, but generally it fills up by 9AM and then doesn't clear out until 4PM. There is a lake there (Lake Phelps) and all kinds of hikes out there, which we were really tempted to do because the afternoon weather was perfect. But, since we had no bear spray and we were there mostly alone, we decided to skip it. Tomorrow it's supposed to start raining at around 9AM, so we'll try to make it to the trailhead early and squeeze in a short hike.

After checking out the preserve, we headed to Jackson for dinner, Jackson is the largest town nearby and apparently it's super wealthy. There are all kinds of very expensive restaurants there, and everything is packed. We went to the Snake River Brewery, had a great dinner, and headed home. Now I'm sitting by the campfire, typing this up and racing against the laptop battery. Tomorrow we'll have an early early start, and make ti back to the campsite by 11AM to checkout and head to Yellowstone.