---
layout: post
title: Day 20 Cooke City, Montana
---

Today we are sleeping in a dry campground called Soda Butte in the Gallatin National Forest just outside of Cooke City, Montana. This campsite allows only hard-sided camping (no tents or pop-ups) because someone in a tent was killed by a grizzly here in 2010. The entrance to the campsite says "Grizzly Bear Area - Special Rules Apply" and then a few meters down there is another sign that says "CAUTION - This campground has known grizzly bear use". So needless to say, we went an finally bought bear spray. 

We ended up in Soda Butte after another really long day. We woke up this morning at 5:45AM and quietly got ready while Raz slept (comfortably and warmly in our bed). We have finally learned to become efficient in the morning and left the campground (after dumping our black and gray water and with Raz dressed, brushed, and buckled in her seat) at 6:28AM. When I woke her up this morning, her first words were "מה זה הריח הזה״. I guess she smelled the campfire on my clothes from the night before. She then told me that she dreamed about foxes and that she wants quiet. It was like waking up a teenager.

It was supposed to start raining at 11, so we decided to do a few hours hike at the Laurence Rockefeller Preserve. We arrived there at around 7:30AM after leaving the trailer at the visitors' center. There is a limit on the number of cars allowed at the preserve (40, to ensure people have a serene nature experience) but we arrived so early that we were alone (the visitor's center was still closed). We decided to do a 3 mile hike to Phelps Lake. Since we didn't have bear spray, we made sure to sing and talk loudly on the trail so we wouldn't surprise any bears. Good thing we have an endless repetoire of songs.

The hike was beautiful, with lush forest and wildflowers blooming everywhere. We showed Raz an aspen with bear claw marks going up it (sometimes mother bears have their cubs climb the trees to rest while they forage for food), and then every tree she looked and examined for claw marks. We are practicing getting her used to hiking (as opposed to hanging out on Liran's back), so she did a lot of the walking on the trail herself. At one point, Liran was too far ahead of us, so she yelled "!אבא! תעזור מיד". 

The trail took us through forest and along a gushing creek (more like a river), by a waterfall, and finally to Phelps Lake. Since we were there so early, we were alone. The lake was stunning, and perfectly reflected the mountains and sky. We sat on a boulder, ate hard-boiled eggs, and felt very connected. Sounds exaggerated, but it really was such a serene and perfect spot that it was difficult not to feel something special.

As we walked back, I asked Raz what different animals eat. Her response was consistently "chips" and sometimes "chips and watermelon". She is also very interested in camouflage right now, but isn't quite sure what it means. She picked up a rock and said, this is a camouflage rock. Then the next rock she picked up "this is the king of the jungle rock". Whatever you say, Raz.

The Rockefeller visitors' center is different from any other visitors' center we have been to. It's sparsely furnished with inspiring quotes on the wall, has a library full of books and maps, has a room with four screen showing images from the preserve with perfectly adjusted sound and has an acoustic room where you can sit and be surrounded by nature sounds. They also have a photo mosaic of the view from Phelps Lake that constructed of images taken in the preserve. The ranger at the visitor's center remembered us from the previous day, when she had just been walking back to her car as we were arriving. She said she remembered us because of Raz's hair. Her hair actually gets a lot of comments here, from rangers, waitresses, and fellow hikers.

When we left the preserve at around 10:15, the parking lot was already packed and there was a line of cars waiting for a parking spot. It's hard to really describe what makes the preserve different from going to the national park itself, but I think part of it is the serenity. The goal is to give people the place and environment to commune and connect with nature, and it really is successul in that. Both Liran and I left feeling different. I felt grateful for the vision and foresight of Rockefeller to donate the land and to ensure that it maintained its special aura. Highly recommeded (but come as early as possible!).

Once we left the Rockefeller preserve, we decided we would start heading north towards Yellowstone. It was supposed to start raining, so there wasn't any point in starting another hike. As soon as we started heading north, it started to rain. We tried to make a pitstop at the Jackons Lodge (which is supposed to be pretty), but it was overrun by tour buses, so we quit. We ended up taking a serendipitous detour to Leek Marina. 

I didn't have a chance to read about the Leek Marina, but it sits on a crystal clear blue lake with giant snowy mountains behind it. The water and sky were a startling shade of blue and contrasted sharply with the mountains and boats. The marina has a pizzeria, so we sat down for lunch and ate a surprisingly good pizza and beer. There was a giant elk up on the wall, which fascinated Raz. The pizza took a long time coming, so we talked about mammals, and Raz practiced identifying them. Liran and I would give her an animal and she figured out if it was a mammal. She was surprisingly good at it.

When we were ready to leave Leek Marina, Liran took the leftover pizza to put in our refridgerator. As soon as he closes the door the the trailer, he looks at me shocked and says "How is that possible? I think I locked the keys in the trailer". Great. I went to go hang out with Raz and left Liran to think. Also because I knew if I had done it I would have never heard the end of it and I kind of wanted him to stress out a bit before I helped him. Anyway, Liran calls me back to the trailer and asks me if I can stick my figure in a little window crack. Turns out that he is one lucky guy. He had left the keys on the kitchen counter and had forgot to close the kitchen window properly. He mananged to pry the window open enough to remove the screen. I brought him a stick from the shoreline and he was able to grab the keys. Lucky lucky lucky. But now we know that the caravan door can lock itself. Lesson learned.

After finally leaving Leek Marina we decided we would head to the northeast corner of Yellowstone Park, so we could do Roosevelt Country hikes tomorrow. The only thing is that we had no idea how big the park actually is. We ended up driving for 2.5 hours before we got to that corner. During that drive, we saw loads of bison and lots of lightening. Raz slept, and then entertained herself and us with songs, stories, and art. Since we are constantly listening to Peter and the Wolf, she is always announcing that she is afraid of wolves. Today the conversation was like this "?אני פוחדת מזאבים. גם אמא". My response "כן, גם אמא". Next quesion "גם אבא?". My response "כן, גם אבא פוחד מזאבים לפעמים". Her response "לא. אבא לא פוחד, הוא בן". Not sure where she got that from, so I quickly set her right. Boys can be scared too. Boys and girls are the same!

We have been listening to a lot of Raz's songs. All three of us have the same favorite CD - אם פתאום אפגוש אריש - and we know all the songs by heart. At one point Liran stopped a song in the middle. Raz's response "?אבא - מה אתה עושה" in an accusing tone. Nothing gets by her. 

By the time we go to the northeast corner of the park, all the campsites were booked. We knew this would happen since the first come first served sites fill up early, so we decided to drive to Cooke City (4 miles from the park exit) to find an RV park. Turns out Cooke City is tiny. So tiny that it only has 1 street, no sidewalks, and bison hanging out in the middle of the town (at first we thought it was a statue). Cooke County has restaurants and motels (and a population of 85 in the winter), but definitely no RV parks. We managed to get to the visitors' center 4 minutes before closing, and the woman there gave me a map of the nearest campsites in the national forest. That's how we ended up in Soda Butte.

We finally bought bear spray at the Cooke City General Store, which is in the National Registry of Historic Places and has been around sine 1886. The weather was crap and it was raining nonstop, which actually added to the atmosphere of this being a little town in the middle of nowhere that isn't really easy to live in.

We finally ended our long day at our campsite. Liran set up the trailer while I got Raz ready, except that she refused to leave the car. Even after a full day in the car, she wanted to sit in the driver's seat and drive. 20 minutes later I finally dragged her out. Maybe she'll grow up to be a cab driver.

Tomorrow we are exploring Roosevelt Country in Yellowstone. Hopefully the weather will be better an we can go hiking. Also hopefully we can get a campsite in the park.