---
layout: post
title: Day 16 Bear Lake, Minnetonka Cave, Montpelier
---

Today we woke up in Salt Lake City and started heading north. Our destination is Grand Teton National Park, but we decided to split it over two days. Our book and map both end at Utah, so we had to stop at a truck stop to buy a road atlas that would cover Idaho and Wyoming. As we drive through this part of the country, we are struck by what a different America this is relative to what we know in California. So many very young parents with multiple kids. And it's not that you only see them at the Walmart (although there are definitely teen parents there), but just everywhere it seems that the median age for parenthood is much lower than what we're used to. That being said, Idaho is gorgeous.

We spent a lot of time on the road today getting to our first pit stop. We played a lot of "I Spy". Apparently the law in Utah doesn't require motorcyclists to wear helmets - and every time we pass one sans helmet, Raz points out "הוא בלי קסדה. למה אמא? למא". At one point in the car, Raz got upset with me (I think I didn't give her something). She started getting angry, yelling and screaming and crying. She then stopped and pleaded "אבא תעזור!". She's learning how things work around here.

Our first stop was Bear Lake. This is a lake that's kind of like Lake Tahoe - it's on the border between Utah and Idaho and gets a ton of snow in winter. They call it the Caribbean of Utah (or something like that) because the water is sort of turquoise (it comes out like that in the pictures more than in real life). Liran kept saying that it was just like the Kinneret (people included). Raz had opinions too: "I think there are octopus in there". I asked her "Really?". She responded dryly, "No". But then later she told me there were jelly fish in there. So who knows. Maybe there are.

We had a pit stop for lunch on the side of the road with beach access. Liran opened the canopy and lay out a blanket and while he fried shnitzel in the RV, Raz and I entertained ourselves. The water is super cold (I think 55 degrees F), but of course Raz wanted to get in.  ״להכנס למים, אמא?״ she asked. I told her it was too cold and she could just put her feet in. So she started bargaining. "לא, גם את הציצי שלי". I told her it was too cold to go that far in. So she tried one last time "להכניס את הראש למים?". At least she is persistent...

We spent the time collecting rocks, throwing them in the water, building piles, and just playing in the sand and water. At one point Raz collected weeds in her pail. She said "זה עשבים לפרות. אני אמא טובה". Nice and loose definition of parenthood.

After Bear Lake we drove to Minnetonka Cave. It was just a random point I found on the map that was more or less on our way. We decided that we wanted to spend more time in the area and that it sounded interesting. The cave itself is enormous and pretty much off the beaten track for people not from the area. There are a fair number of toursits there, but they are all local(ish). When the tour guide found out we were from Israel, she asked us (incredulously) "What are you doing here?" like we had gotten to this middle-of-nowhere cave by mistake.

The cave itself is really impressive - it has multiple rooms, the biggest of which is 300 ft long by 90 ft high, and lots of formations. Even Raz at one point said "It's so pretty". Liran asked her "היית פעם במקום כזה מיוחד?". When she responded yes, he asked her when. ״פעם פעם שהייתי ילדה״. The cave was discovered by a white man a long time ago (sorry I can't remember his name or when it was) - what's interesting is that he was the one that truly discovered it. There were no petroglyphs inside or marks of smoke suggesting it had been used by Native Americans in the past. I thought that was memorable, since so many times things that are "discovered" by pioneers or settlers were actually already in use by generations before them. Not in this case, which I think is probably pretty unique.

There are 400ish steps down and then 400 steps back up, so sometimes people turn around in the middle. At one point, we suddenly see a trail of Mormons comming down the stairs past us. I think they were fundamentalist Mormons, because they were dressed in homemade dresses and with traditional hairstyles. The children were all so skinny and skittish with dirty faces. It was heartbreaking. I am not sure how or why theycame on a tour or why they turned around, but to me that was the most memorable part of the whole thing. Raz of course had a comment about that too "She's wearing a dress!". 

We are sleeping tonight at a KOA just outside of Montpelier. As we drove into town it was like something from a zombie movie. The town looks very traditional, with a Main St, etc, except that it's completely deserted. Every single shop was closed and there was not a soul outside. Some shops were boarded up, but some just looked abandoned. It was pretty creepy. At the KOA, the manager explained that everything shuts down on Sunday (even the grocery store). So no zombies, just God.

Tomorrow we head to Grand Teton. 
