---
layout: post
title: Day 11 Capitol Reef
---

We seem to have gotten into a groove that helps us escape the heat. We start our days early, getting ready and then waking Raz up, eating breakfast in the car so we can hit the trail before the heat sets in. We do a few trails and then head home for lunch and a 2-3 hour nap. Then the afternoon we explore some more. This means that we end up staying 2 nights at each place, but it is worth it.

On our way to the first hike, we had to go fill up water, since we couldn't use the water in Torrey and since the gas station was closed. I get to the visitor's center and there is a woman cleaning the bathrooms. She had cordoned off the little hallway, which included the drinking faucet. I asked to use it and she refused - apparently once she's put up the chain to clean the bathrooms, it's a hazard, even if I have no intention of going to the bathroom. She was adamanet that I drive another .75 miles down the road and out of my way to fill up water. I explained to her there is a heat advisory, the water in Torrey is dirty, etc. But no - there are rules here at Capitol Reef. Quite a theme at this place. 

We started off today with the Hickman Bridge hike - the book says that if you only do one hike while at Capitol Reef, this is it. It's a nice hike, up a hill, through a wash, across some slickrock, and then to a natural stone bridge. Unfortunately, itt was already too hot when we started, and it was too similar (and not as nice) as the bridges at Natural Bridges. We've become geology snobs.

At one point either before or duing the hike (not sure), Raz and Liran spot a deer. Liran points out the deer to Raz and tells her he thinks it might be a baby. So Raz says "It's a fawn". Liran and I were floored. Neither of us taught her that (Liran didn't even know what it was), and it definitely hadn't come up on this trip. We asked her where she learned it and she nonchalantly replied "Trixy". Nice!

As we are hiking up the hill, Raz leads us in songs. We all know all of her CDs by heart now, so she starts singing and we join in. She has a great memory for lyrics. Today at dinner she quoted something from a song (something about something being delicious and then being all gone) when she was done eating. I told her it sounded familiar and that I couldn't remember where it was from - so she told me the exact song. I think that's kind of weird.

We finished the hike pretty early (around 10), so we decided to do another hike - Grand Wash. This hike takes you into a canyon, with walls 80 stories high which eventually close in to be 15 feet apart. It's flat and occasionally shaded, so we decided Raz could walk parts of it. We didn't take into account that since it was a wash, there would be endless amounts of rocks for her to collect. So progress was slow, my pockets occasionally got filled, and she was very busy. At one point in the hike there is a crazy echo, so Raz entertained us all by yelling and making rooster sounds.

There was also dried silt on the hike, which had cracked and peeled and looked like broken terracotta pots (only much more fragile). Raz of course collected these too and had her hands full at all times. She also stopped collecting every so often to build things. At on point Liran was impressed by one of her creations  and asked her when she built. Her response - "לפני שבועיים". 

When we got to the car it was already 11:30, but we decided that we wanted to squeeze in one more thing and to find a creek to splash around in. I said ״טוב חבריםת היה כיף, בו נמשיך״ and Raz's response was "אני לא חברים, אני ילדה. ילדה חמודה״ . 

There are a few places to bathe in Captiol Reef. One is the Fremont River, which flows right by Fruita. I had read it had agricultural runoff so we decided to go for something a little less accessible but hopefully cleaner. We decided on Pleasant Creek, which was breifly mentioned in our book as being at the end of the Scenic Drive. We took the drive all the way to the end, at which point there was a small sign and a dirt road leading to Pleasant Creek. We took that, not really knowing how far and if there would be a creek. We passed through old farms and pastures (Capitol Reef was a pioneer settlement), and finally reached the creek. Liran and Raz stripped down and went all in, while I enjoyed splashing with my feet, taking pictures, and not seeing any other tourists.

Finally, after three different "activities" we were all ready to go home. We decided we would have lunch in Torrey and then take a nap. We arrived in Torrey and all the restaurants were closed due to the water contamination. Raz really wanted french fries, so Liran decided he was going to make them. We stopped at the small convenience store in town, and were told that the water situation is very serious. We should not use the water even for washing dishes. Oops. 

So we are still washing dishes in the water (not much choice), but are brushing our teeth with bottled water and bathing Raz with clean water (from our tank or from mineral water). It's annoying because it isn't really clear what the problem is or how bad it is. Anyway, Liran made french fries while Raz and I washed dishes and played with gravel outside. After lunch it was time for another 2 hour nap for Raz while Liran and I sat outside and enjoyed life. Suddenly, we heard thunder, and then small droplets of rain, which eventually turnd into a huge downpour with gusts of wind. It all started and ended pretty quickly, but it did a great job of breaking the heat. On many hikes around the park there are warnings about flash floods - now we understand why. It was pretty instant.

At around 5:30 Liran decided it was time to wake Raz up (heartless). As usual I objected. We woke her up and went to Fruita, the Mormon pioneer town. There are beautiful lawns there and giant old trees, all surrounded by big red cliffs. Deer graze and prarie dogs and turkeys wander around. Raz again spotted a dear. She said it was a fawn, and I told her I wasn't sure. So she told me that fawns have spots and that's how she knows. Nice job Trixy.

On one of the lawns there was a high pole that Raz wanted to reach. I wanted to get back so I told her it was too high (true). She didn't even blink and responded "אבא יכול להרים אותי". So she already knows who is good for what. Just like when we were walking down the creek, she only wanted to hold Aba's hand because he did all kinds of fun things in the water with her.

After Fruita we drove to Bicknell, the town after Torrey to get dinner. We stopped a restaurant which was packed. Apparently it's family run, and they have never been so busy. But since Torrey's water supply has shut down all the restaurants and has made cooking a huge pain, everyone has been funneling to one of three restaurants which are still open. While we are sitting eating our dinner, Raz suddenly says "I am not afraid of anything". We told her it's okay to be afraid and asked her if she's afraid of wolves (we have been listening to Peter and the Wolf a lot recently). She thought about it, and decided that yes. Ima is scared, Aba is scared, and Razi is scared of wolves.

Tomorrow we are up early, heading to Escalante National Monument. We're going to try to snag a spot at Escalante Petrified Forest State Park - hopefully we'll be luckier than at Capitol Reef. I think the summary about Capitol Reef is that it's nice, but the other parks we've seen are more impressive. If you are going to stay at Capitol Reef, the only worthwhile place to stay is at the first come first serve Fruita camptround. And time your visit based on when fruit is ripe to be picked.